it began in the sea some 3000 million
years ago complex chemical molecules
began to clump together to form
microscopic blobs cells these were the
seeds from which the Tree of Life
developed they were able to split
replicating themselves as bacteria do
and as time passed they diversified into
different groups some remained attached
to one another so that they formed
chains we know them today as algae
others formed hollow balls which
collapsed upon themselves creating a
body with an internal cavity they were
the first multi-celled organisms sponges
are their direct descendants as more
variations appeared the tree of life
grew and became more diverse some
organisms became more mobile and
developed a mouth that opened into a gut
others had bodies stiffened by an
internal rod they understandably
developed sense organs around their
front end a related group had bodies
that were divided into segments with
little projections on either side that
helped them to move around on the
seafloor some of these segmented
creatures developed hard protective
skins which gave their bodies some
rigidity so now the Seas were filled
with a great variety of animals
and then around 450 million years ago
some of these armoured creatures crawled
up out of the water and ventured onto
land
and here the Tree of Life branched into
a multitude of different species that
exploited this new environment in all
kinds of ways one group of them
developed elongated flaps on their backs
which over many generations eventually
developed into wings the insects had
arrived life moved into the air and
diversified into myriad folders
meanwhile back in the seas those
creatures were the stiffening rod in
their bodies had strengthened it by
encasing it in bone a skull developed
with a hinged jaw that could grab and
hold onto prey they grew bigger and
developed fins equipped with muscles
that enabled them to swim with speed and
power so fish now dominated the waters
of the world one group of them developed
the ability to gulp air from the water
surface
their fleshy fins became wait supporting
legs and 375 million years ago a few of
these backbone creatures followed the
insects onto the land they were
amphibians with wet skins and they had
to return to water to lay their eggs but
some of their descendents evolved dry
scaly skins and broke their link with
water by laying eggs with watertight
shells these creatures the reptiles were
the ancestors of today's tortoises
snakes lizards and crocodiles and of
course they included the group that back
then came to dominate the land the
dinosaurs
but 65 million years ago a great
disaster overtook the earth
whatever it's caused a great proportion
of animals were exterminated all the
dinosaurs disappeared except for one
branch whose scales had become modified
into feathers they were the birds while
they spread through the skies a small
seemingly insignificant group of
survivors began to increase in numbers
on the ground beneath these creatures
differed from their competitors in that
their bodies were warm and insulated
with coats of fur they were the first
mammals with much of the land left
vacant after the great catastrophe they
now had their chance their warm
insulated bodies enabled them to be
active at all times at night as well as
during the day and in all places from
the Arctic to the tropics in water as
well as on land on grassy plains and up
in the trees
there's something just about him just
the way he the way he moves the way he
speaks it's very relaxing IBM not
strapped no yes not dragging